# mfabry-Capstone

CS499 Capstone ePortfolio

Self Assessment

Before starting my position as a Software Analyst at my current employer nine years ago, I had no idea what the position was and what the job duties for this position entailed.  Once I got introduced to the position and started getting more involved in the projects, I found that I actually enjoyed working as a Software Analyst and decided after seven years in the position, that I wanted to get my degree in Computer Science, to further my understanding and get a full round education in the development side of the IT world.  Over the course of completing my program, I have been able to enhance my skills and have been able to take on much more technical projects at work.  While becoming a software developer is not my end game in getting my degree, I wanted to gain the ability to read, write and understand how effective code should come together to create a sound and safe program.  

Over the course of this program, it allowed me to get a great understand of how all the moving parts come together to deliver a sound product for your client.  The courses in Platform Technologies, Foundation in App Development and Introduction to SQL gave a good insight as to how the computer systems should be set up and how they interact with the networks and infrastructure systems, and how to start interacting with the databases with the ability to query data within these structures.  Courses also introduced us to various development languages and creating projects within these languages, showcased how similar actions are created and vary within different formats.  Along with learning how to work with different coding languages, we also got an introduction and learned how to work within the Software Development Life Cycle, from gathering requirements from Stakeholders, working within Agile teams, and the importance of both unit testing and end to end testing, giving a full circle view of how a project may come together adds immense value to our knowledge base.  The end of the program focused on emerging technologies in the mobile arena and the importance of secure coding making sure the both our code and environments are secure against any harmful attacks.

The three projects that I chose to showcase from my time in the program showcase an understanding in Software Design and Engineering by working on a visual design created using C++ language and incorporating the OpenGL API library, this was one of the most technically difficult projects that I worked on as code development is not my strong suite and had to incorporate many different functions within the program to get the object to render correctly.  The second project that I chose to work on focuses on Algorithms and Data Structure, for this project I chose to showcase the project that I made with the Raspberry Pi device, this was my first time working with this type of device and created a program that would read the temperature and humidity within your room and place the data in a json file to be displayed on a graph.   This required an understanding of how to get the readings from the unit into a json file and how to get that data to display correctly on an html graph.  The last project that I chose to work on focuses on Databases, for this project, I created a database using the mongo dB environment and creating a RESTful API to extract data from the database.  I chose this project to try and improve my skills with navigating within a database, as a Software Analyst, I interact with extracting data from a database on a daily basis and am interested in sharpening my skills on how to effectively extract the data I am looking for from the databases.
